Dynamically linked libraries (DLLs) are system libraries that are linked to user
programswhen the programs are run (refer back to Figure 9.3). Some operating
systems support only static linking, in which system libraries are treated
like any other object module and are combined by the loader into the binary
program image. Dynamic linking, in contrast, is similar to dynamic loading.
Here, though, linking, rather than loading, is postponed until execution time.
This feature is usually used with system libraries, such as the standard C
language library.Without this facility, each program on a system must include a
copy of its language library (or at least the routines referenced by the program)
in the executable image. This requirement not only increases the size of an
executable image but also may waste main memory. A second advantage of
DLLs is that these libraries can be shared among multiple processes, so that
only one instance of the DLL in main memory. For this reason, DLLs are also
known as shared libraries, and are used extensively in Windows and Linux
systems.
When a program references a routine that is in a dynamic library, the loader
locates the DLL, loading it into memory if necessary. It then adjusts addresses
that reference functions in the dynamic library to the location in memorywhere
the DLL is stored.
Dynamically linked libraries can be extended to library updates (such as
bug fixes). In addition, a library may be replaced by a new version, and all
programs that reference the library will automatically use the new version.
Without dynamic linking, all such programs would need to be relinked to gain
access to the new library. So that programs will not accidentally execute new,
incompatible versions of libraries, version information is included in both the
program and the library. More than one version of a library may be loaded
into memory, and each program uses its version information to decide which
copy of the library to use. Versions with minor changes retain the same version
number, whereas versions with major changes increment the number. Thus,
only programs that are compiled with the new library version are affected by
any incompatible changes incorporated in it. Other programs linked before the
new library was installed will continue using the older library.
Unlike dynamic loading, dynamic linking and shared libraries generally
require help from the operating system. If the processes in memory are protected
from one another, then the operating system is the only entity that can
check to see whether the needed routine is in another process’s memory space
or that can allow multiple processes to access the same memory addresses.
We elaborate on this concept, as well as how DLLs can be shared by multiple
processes, when we discuss paging in Section 9.3.4.